well sup guys this is Erin and this is
your very first guitar lesson these
first few videos and lessons are
designed to teach the person who's never
picked up the guitar before where to
start okay so what we want to do is
start with just the strings and the
frets the very basics of the guitar to
get an idea what the guitar is first of
all we got six strings on the guitar
string one is a smallest stream
it's just string one this is the high E
string okay the lowest string is also
Ian this is string six so starting from
the top of the guitar we have string six
which is e moving down we have string
five which is a string four which is D
string three which is g string 2 which
is B back string 1 which is high E
alright so those are our strings of the
guitar what we want to do is define what
a fret is now most people think when
they start guitar what a lot of people
think that the dots on the guitar have
something to do or where you place your
fingers or the little metal lines here
where you place your fingers and we just
want to make sure we understand that the
middle of the fret is where we're going
to place our finger not on it not on the
lines as you get nasty sounds like that
but you want to place your finger in the
middle of the squares between the lines
okay so we're gonna do a star for the
exercise just to get our the muscles and
our fingers going I can't emphasize
enough how important this is when you
start making chords if you can go ahead
and get your get the muscles in your
fingers moving especially that pinky
your chord making will be a lot easier
when it comes to that okay so we're
going to do a start in first position on
the guitar which just means their first
four frets we're gonna take our first
finger and play the very top string on
the first fret
okay simple as that I'm going to take
our second finger play the very top
string on the 2nd fret 3rd on the 3rd
4th on the 4th fret okay and we're going
to repeat this pattern all the way down
the strings moving down to the 5th
string a then the 4th string the D
string
okay also moving downward that you're
picking in from the sixth string to the
first string okay and you can you can
make this exercise any way you want to
you can go from the from the lowest
string to the high string you can start
with a high string and move backwards
four three two one four three two one
all the way down the point of this
exercise does not see how fast you can
go it's just to get a good tone out of
the guitar and make sure you're playing
the frets and the notes right so take
your time with it and make sure that
you're playing all the notes right once
you get this exercise down I encourage
you to make a little bit more
challenging maybe by going up a fret
each time you move down the string so
you want to go one two three four when
you go down to the next string move up
to the second fret and so forth just
repeat the pattern going back down
another exercise you can't rise with
your pick when you get this exercise
down you want to start by playing with
your pick only moving down first
but eventually when you're getting
comfortable with using your pick
alternate the pick positions going down
first then up second so down then up on
the next finger down and help on the
next finger you'll find this a lot more
difficult than just moving down with the
pick but it's very useful later on
playing guitar so what I want you to do
first is just practice this exercise get
it down to where your fingers are sore
your fingertips should be very sore you
actually have to press down on the
string pretty hard at first and you'll
find that your fingertips get really
sore but that's okay you know if your
fingertips get sore wait a few minutes
try the exercise again there's no rush
you got plenty of time learning the
guitar so I'm going to move on to the
next video and practice this exercise
and I hope you found it helpful
you